Title: "Elementary and high school students performance and relation to the district education finance " -GA Final Project Research proposal
Author: Yu Zhang
output: 

1. Introduction

In the discussion of K-12 students' success, the issue of financing is prominent from the perspective of various stakeholders. Policymakers are engaged in asking how much public purse should be devoted to elementary and high school students related to competing demands on tuition, expenditure, and transportation. Federal education and census are concerned about the financial capacity to provide quality education and sustain the living hood. Besides, the family and students concerned about how they pay for education can guarantee the students' success beyond elementary and high school. 

In observing the NAEP (National Assessment of Educational Progress) data and Educational financing data from the National Finance Census (National Center for Educational Statistics), we have been known the educational finance can be characterized by the goals of students' academic success, and by a strong influence by the financial capacity, by and large, we might predict the elementary and high school students academic success on mathematics and literacy to be influenced by the features of family and federal educational financing, this is for example, highly praise by educational scholar and researcher Joan Herman'description: "the keys resources, educational financing have been imposed the role to expand the enrollment and institutes. On the performance standards, the evaluation can be introduced to predict the student's performance"(2011). 

2. Data Resource 
https://www.kaggle.com/kabure/eda-us-education-finances
Data set of the chracteristics
NAPE data: Students G4-8 subject test Mathematics and Literacy Standardized test score by year 
year
State
score 
test_subject
test_year

include 2305 observations and 5 variables

District Finance:

STATE :state 
ENROLL :enroll 
NAME : district name 
YRDATA : year 
TOTALREV : total_revenue
TFEDREV : federal_revenue
TSTREV: state_revenue
TLOCREV: local_revenue
TOTALEXP: expenditure
TCURINST: current_spending_instruction
TCURSSVC: current_spending
TCURONON: other_spending
TCAPOUT: total_capital

include 374161 observations and 13 variables

3. Research question:

1. What are the relationship between educational financing and elementary and high school student's performance in the last 10 years? 
2. What is the main district financial prediction that drive the elementary and high school students mathematics and reading standardized test? 
3.what are the policy recommendation for the educational policymaker to allocate the district educational financing and plan the resources?


4. Data preparation
Loading data
handling missing value
merge the tables
numeric features and output variables

5. Exploratory Data Analysis

fig1. scatter plots between the features and (naep)score
fig2. line plots of finance features by year
fig3. percentage comparison of finance features

table1. ranking of avg score on mathematics and reading of district
table2. revenue ranking by state and districts

6. Modeling preparation
splitting data to the training and test data of 80% training and 20% test data.


7: Models: Prediction
Random Forest 
Gradient Boosting Machine
Support Vector Machine

Model Performance Evaluation:
1.ROC of cross-validation
2.Accuracy of test data
3.Predictive modeling ranking 
4.Assess the model with the final testing set.

Conclusion
Key factors
Predictive models ranks5

Impact of the findings
The project addresses the research and practitioners pursuing, which can be the key responsibilities in both academic and educational application. In an attempt to place in K-12 systems and institutions, we consider the higher financial expenditure, instructional supports, and others that could predict elementary and high school student's success. Besides, we consider the student's performance cohorts cluster in areas of districts and schools of various finance capacity.  